h1. Avahi-daemon

This project aims at getting the avahi daemon working in the Freetz environment. Personally, my intention for doing so is to have avahi-daemon announce my Netatalk shared volumes to Apple machines on the same network. In this configuration freetz-Netatalk provides the fileservices via TCP/IP and avahi-daemon is needed to announce its presence, which Netatalk cannot do itself.


h2. Current status

All necessary binaries compile, install and run correctly (in my tests at least). Configuration is made possible via a cgi-bin module. The three configuration files needed can be edited and saved to nvmem using the Freetz web config interface. Examples for the files are provided.
External builds are untested.


h2. People

This package was compiled by me, Jens David (DG1KJD) <jens.david@jens-david-consulting.com>. It is based on previous work done by "sf3978", "olistudent" and "er13". Confer to this discussion thread for more information:

http://www.ip-phone-forum.de/showthread.php?p=1524730


h2. Installation

First you need to fork the Git repository:
"http://github.com/dg1kjd/freetz-avahi":http://github.com/dg1kjd/freetz-avahi

After that you should setup your build environment and build your new firmware. The following commands should help with that. Replace {USERNAME} with your user name.

pre. 
mkdir freetz
cd freetz
svn checkout http://svn.freetz.org/trunk
git clone git@github.com:{USERNAME}/freetz-avahi.git avahi-daemon
ln -s ../../avahi-daemon trunk/make/
sed -i 's%autofs/Config.in%autofs/Config.in\nsource make/avahi-daemon/Config.in%' trunk/make/Config.in
cd trunk
make menuconfig
<select packages here, including avahi-daemon>
make


h2. Pakets

pre. 
FREETZ_PACKAGE_AVAHI_DAEMON
  Package selection -> Testing -> Avahi-daemon


h2. Shell

It is advised to start and stop avahi-daemon once using the web interface to create its configuration files and necessary symlinks. After that they can be modified here:

* /mod/etc/avahi-daemon/avahi-daemon_conf
* /mod/etc/avahi-daemon/avahi_hosts
* /mod/etc/avahi-daemon/avahi_service

Daemon starting and stopping:

It is advised to use the rc.avahi-daemon script in /etc/init.d/ to start and stop the daemons, like the webinterface does. Otherwise you can run the avahi-daemon manually with something like

pre. 
  avahi-daemon -D -f /mod/etc/avahi-daemon/avahi-daemon_conf

By leaving out -D you can prevent forking into background for e.g. debugging the beast with strace or gdb.

Stopping:

pre. 
  killall -SIGTERM avahi-daemon


h2. Links

* "Forum":http://www.ip-phone-forum.de/showthread.php?p=1524730
* "Netatalk":http://netatalk.sourceforge.net
* "Github":http://help.github.com/forking
* "Avahi Project":http://www.avahi.org
